What's new for preview 3 (#11960)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/whats-new/dotnet-core-3-0.md

* You can double-click on the executable.
* You can launch the application from a command prompt directly, such as `myapp.exe` on Windows, and `./myapp` on Linux and macOS.

## Tiered compilation

[Tiered compilation](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/tiered-compilation-preview-in-net-core-2-1/) is on by default with .NET Core 3.0. This feature enables the runtime to more adaptively use the Just-In-Time (JIT) compiler to get better performance.

This feature was added as an opt-in feature in [.NET Core 2.1](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/announcing-net-core-2-1/) and then was enabled by default in [.NET Core 2.2 Preview 2](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/announcing-net-core-2-2-preview-2/). Subsequently, it has been reverted back to opt in with the .NET Core 2.2 release.

## Build copies dependencies

The `dotnet build` command now copies NuGet dependencies for your application from the NuGet cache to the build output folder. Previously, dependencies were only copied as part of `dotnet publish`.

There are some operations, like linking and razor page publishing that will still require publishing.

> ## Local dotnet tools

Author: I'll just simplify it completely.

```suggestion
## Local tools
```

dotnet new winforms
```

Visual Studio 2019 adds **New Project** templates for .NET Core 3.0 Windows Forms and WPF.

For more information about how to port an existing .NET Framework application, see [Port WPF projects](../porting/winforms.md) and [Port Windows Forms projects](../porting/wpf.md).

> ## MSIX Deployment for Windows Desktop

Reviewer: Should we define MSIX on its first use?

Author: Going to the link for this, they don't define it either. it's just called MSIX 🤣

Here is a sample usage of the `JsonDocument` and `JsonElement` that can be used as a starting point:

Here is a C# 8.0 example of reading through the [**launch.json**](https://github.com/dotnet/samples/blob/master/core/whats-new/whats-new-in-30/cs/launch.json) file created by Visual Studio Code:

[!CODE-csharp[JsonDocument](~/samples/core/whats-new/whats-new-in-30/cs/program.cs#ReadJson)]

[!CODE-csharp[JsonDocument](~/samples/core/whats-new/whats-new-in-30/cs/program.cs#ReadJsonCall)]

## Interop improvements

> Enhancements have been added to .NET Core that improves native API interop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET Core 3,0 improves native API interop.
```

## TLS 1.3 & OpenSSL 1.1.1 on Linux

.NET Core now takes advantage of [TLS 1.3 support in OpenSSL 1.1.1](https://www.openssl.org/blog/blog/2018/09/11/release111/), when it's available in a given environment. With TLS 1.3:

* Connection times are improved with reduced round trips required between the client and server.
* Improved security because of the removal of various obsolete and insecure cryptographic algorithms.

When available, .NET Core 3.0 uses **OpenSSL 1.1.1**, **OpenSSL 1.1.0**, or **OpenSSL 1.0.2** on a Linux system. When **OpenSSL 1.1.1** is available, both <xref:System.Net.Security.SslStream?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient?displayProperty=nameWithType> types will use **TLS 1.3** (assuming both the client and server support **TLS 1.3**).

>[!IMPORTANT]
>Windows and macOS do not yet support **TLS 1.3**. .NET Core 3.0 will support **TLS 1.3** on these operating systems when support becomes available.

The following C# 8.0 example demonstrates .NET Core 3.0 on Ubuntu 18.10 connecting to <https://www.cloudflare.com>:

[!CODE-csharp[TLSExample](~/samples/core/whats-new/whats-new-in-30/cs/TLS.cs#TLS)]

## Cryptography ciphers

> Support has been added for **AES-GCM** and **AES-CCM** ciphers, implemented with <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.AesGcm?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.AesCcm?displayProperty=nameWithType> respectively. These algorithms are both [Authenticated Encryption with Association Data (AEAD) algorithms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authenticated_encryption).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET 3.0 add support for **AES-GCM** and **AES-CCM** ciphers, implemented with <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.AesGcm?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.AesCcm?displayProperty=nameWithType> respectively. These algorithms are both [Authenticated Encryption with Association Data (AEAD) algorithms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authenticated_encryption).
```

Previously, .NET Core only supported using `SerialPort` on Windows.

## Docker and cgroup memory Limits

Starting with Preview 3, running .NET Core 3.0 on Linux with Docker works better with cgroup memory limits. Running a Docker container with memory limits, such as with `docker run -m`, changes how .NET Core behaves.

* Default Garbage Collector (GC) heap size: maximum of 20 mb or 75% of the memory limit on the container.
* Explicit size can be set as an absolute number or percentage of cgroup limit.
* Minimum reserved segment size per GC heap is 16 mb. This size reduces the number of heaps that are created on machines.

## GPIO Support for Raspberry Pi

Two packages have been released to NuGet that you can use for GPIO programming:

* [System.Device.Gpio](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Device.Gpio)
* [Iot.Device.Bindings](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Iot.Device.Bindings)

The GPIO packages include APIs for *GPIO*, *SPI*, *I2C*, and *PWM* devices. The IoT bindings package includes device bindings. For more information, see the [devices GitHub repo](https://github.com/dotnet/iot/blob/master/src/devices/).

## ARM64 Linux support

> Support has been added for ARM64 for Linux. The primary use case for ARM64 is currently with IoT scenarios. For more information, see [.NET Core ARM64 Status](https://github.com/dotnet/announcements/issues/82).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET Core 4.0 adds support for ARM64 for Linux. The primary use case for ARM64 is currently with IoT scenarios. For more information, see [.NET Core ARM64 Status](https://github.com/dotnet/announcements/issues/82).
```
